# 190207 BIOF 509 Notes

## Types of Machine Learning

1. Classification - Assign to class. *Discrete*
2. Regression - Predict value. *Continuous*
3. Estimation - Predict likelihood. *Probability*
4. Clustering - Finding groups/networks

## Supervised vs Unsupervised

- Supervised has a label (ie red, blue, green)
- Unsupervised is raw data. The algorithm finds its own patterns.
- Learning can also be reinforced by providing a reward or punishment for certain outcomes.

## Dimensionality Reduction

Data is frequently multidimensional. Frequently, however, not all these data are necessary to make a good prediction. In these case, you may choose to reduce the dimension in some manner (PCA, etc.). This makes the training faster, but can reduce predictive power.

## Feature Selection

Sometimes, feature within a data set correlate with each other. Thus including both can actually hurt the model (prevent convergence, increase complexity, etc.). Or, scoring reveals that certain features contribute little variance or do not boost performace. In these cases, you might select not to use them.

## Deep Learning

Think neural networks. By feeding forward and backwards to minimise error, the model teaches itself connection strengths. Performs best on complex, high dimensional data.

## When to use

- You cannot code the rules (ie. there are large numbers of features)
- You cannot scale. ML is handle large sample spaces very well

Generally, use the simplest model that gets your job done.

## Programming vs Machine Learning

In programming, you write the rules. You know right and wrong, and you tell the program. In ML, you don't know the rules, so you let the algorithm learn the rules from the program.
